Let's set up the ref or link value for this edit button, right?
The question is, if a user clicks on this, what you URL should it take them to?
Well, let's jump back into our text editor and online number eight, we see an element.
So this is the element right below the span and right above this form tag.
Currently, it's HCF is just a placeholder hash tag.
Let's get rid of that.
And instead, let's say slash post slash and then just as a placeholder, let's say I.D. and then slash
edit, I just made up the structure, but I think it will work nicely.
Now let's make the IDE segment of the URL actually dynamic, so get rid of ID and in its place drop
into SJS.
And we can just say post dot, underscore I.D., let's go ahead and save that and now back in the browser,
if I refresh and now if I click on the edit icon.
Cool.
So this new URL tells the server that we want to work with a post which post we're interested in and
what we would want to do at that post.
Now we see an error because we have not actually set up a route for this.
But let's do that right now.
Let's go jump into our router.
So in the root of our project folder, jump into rutabagas towards the bottom under this post related
route's comment, let's add a new line and say router dot target and then give it a value of slash post
slash Colen.
I'd slash edit OK for the second argument.
So comma, let's list a controller function so post controller and then let's make up a name, let's
call it view edit screen.
Let's go ahead and save this.
And now we better go into our post controller and create a function with this matching name.
So in your controllers folder open up post controller, let's scroll down to the very bottom and let's
create a brand new function.
So exports dot view, edit screen.
Let's set that to a function within these parentheses.
Be sure to include a request and response.
OK, and now within the body of this function, we just need to do two things.
We need to ask our post model for the data for this relevant post.
Right.
We'd need the existing title and body content so that the user could update or edit it.
And then after that, we just want to render an edit screen template.
Let's actually begin with the template, let's say response render and imagine that we're going to have
a template named edit post.
Before we go any further, let's go ahead and save this and make sure that we have a file or template
with this matching name.
So within our project's views folder, let's right click and choose new file and let's name the new
file.
Edit Dash Post, DOT SJS.
Now if we think about it and edit post, the screen is going to look very similar to the create post
screen.
So let's actually just jump in to create dash post, select everything into our clipboard and copy and
then back in our new empty edit post, just paste it in.
There's only a few key differences for now.
Let's just make one change down towards the bottom.
We see this button element instead of saying save new post, let's have it say save updates.
Now let's save this template and test it out.
So back in the browser now if we visit the edit URL for a post.
So if I refresh.
Cool, so we have title and body fields and there's the save update's button.
Now, just imagine if these fields were populated with the existing title and body values for the relevant
post.
For this, you are out.
Well, to make that happen, let's just go back to our post comptroller.
So in our post comptroller file within our view, edit screen function right above the render line with,
say, look within our post model and let's call a function find single by I.D., OK, and then we just
want to pull the ID from the current U.
RL, so request programs, dot I.D..
Now remember, this function that we created is going to return a promise and we wouldn't want to render
our template until we actually have this data.
So at the start of this line, let's just say a wait.
We can only use the await feature within an async function.
So right before the word function here to say async, OK, also whatever value this promise is going
to resolve to is going to be the post that we're interested in.
So at the start of this line, let's just say let post equal whatever value this promise resolves with,
OK, and then that's what we would want to pass into our template.
So let's add a second argument when we render the template, comma.
We want to pass it an object and let's just have a property named Post with a value of post.
However, let's remember that this promise of ours is going to reject, if it's not a valid I.D. that
you're sending over to it, or if a post doesn't exist with that I.D. So to account for that, let's
cut these two lines into our clipboard and let's set up a try block and below that, a catch block.
Within the tribe block, we can just paste in our code and within the catch block, let's just render
our 404 template.
So response render 404, OK, let's save this.
And now let's go into our edit post template and use the relevant post data.
So right now, let's jump into our edit dash postgrads file.
And we just want to use that post data to pre populate the title field and body field.
So around line number seven, we see an input element.
It doesn't matter exactly where, but somewhere on this input tag, let's give it a new attribute.
Let's say value equals quotes.
And in between those quotes, we want to drop into an Ejaz tag and we just want to pull in post DOT
title to save some typing.
You can copy this SJS bit of code because we're going to do the same thing with body.
So if I copy that into my clipboard, then find the text area.
This element is the body field.
Since text areas usually have a matching closing tag, we can just place our cursor in between those
opening and closing tags right here, paste in our clipboard and change post title to post DOT forty.
With this in place, let's go ahead and save this and test it out.
So back in the browser, if I refresh this edit screen for a post perfect, it pulls in the values from
the database for this particular post and up in the address bar.
If I just type in a bit of random nonsense for the ID and then push enter cool.
It renders the 404 template.
Let me go back to that real post now.
A bit later on we will want to restrict things so that only the author or owner of a post can even see
this edit screen.
However, for now I actually want to leave this route unprotected so that even people who are not the
owner of this post can visit this.
You are on screen.
I'm doing this so that in our next lesson, when we work on letting this form actually submit and update,
this data in the database will be able to test and make sure that only the owner of the post can actually
submit data to update a post.
Once we've set up those permissions or that restriction, then we can go back and make sure that only
the owner can even view the edit screen.
So up next, we are going to work on actually submitting any updated data that the user types in and
saving those new values in the database for this existing document.
Let's keep things rolling and I'll see you then.